all right so this is my first video with
one of these new Intel 10th gen gaming
laptops that's also running in videos
new r-tx super video cards and because
this is my first video I've done with
this type of processor with these new
tenth trend chips just real briefly the
10 things you need to know about Intel's
10th changeups in 10 seconds they are
good but MD stuff right now in terms of
their 4000 series ApS are they're just
better in terms of value these get eight
cores for a lower price they have lower
wattage lower temperatures and because
it's a cooler running chip you can
package that into smaller devices which
we have here this is the G 14 from Asus
so the advantages on the intel slide 2
things come to mind number one if you
have like single core applications this
stuff can go a little bit faster on
single core and also if your workflow
can take advantage of Intel specific
stuff like quick sync in Adobe Premiere
then these chips can be advantageous but
I think for many people maybe most
people AMD stuff is just gonna be a
better value but like I've said in
previous videos it's as if these chips
don't even matter the truth is right now
in 2020 it is very difficult to buy any
kind of high quality gaming laptop with
these chips in them so right now
everyone's still using Intel next year I
think we're going to see some changes
but if you want to buy a gaming laptop
in 2020 it's probably gonna have an
Intel chip in it okay so this one is the
aorist 15 G from gigabyte and it's had a
pretty major redesign from the previous
year's model it's in this space gray
color well it's just gray I don't know
why I coloured Space Gray but the main
feature the most kind of unique feature
about this device is its keyboard this
has a new mechanical keyboard that's
running these brand-new arm run switches
now on this channel I've reviewed at
least a half-dozen gaming laptops sort
of had mechanical keyboards in them and
they're never like super appealing to me
they feel different like there's a
particular tactility to gaming laptops
with mechanical keyboards but I've never
really had a strong preference for them
so when they told me that this was
coming in with this new keyboard I
wasn't super excited about it right
because I just
had you know lukewarm experiences with
these types of devices and when it came
in I got to be honest I didn't love it
because there's there's something
different about this type of keyboard
that I really wasn't used to but having
spent over two weeks with this thing I
think I really liked it but there's a
really really steep learning curve and
when I say like steep you got to use
this thing for a very long time to
actually get used to it but once you do
I think the vast majority people will
really like this keyboard now the reason
why it's so hard to get used to I was
trying to figure it out before I shot
this I was like what made this keyboard
so weird and so like abnormal okay it's
three things the first is the kind of
elevation of the keys so when you have a
mechanical keyboard on a gaming laptop
you can't make the keys pop up above the
kind of rim of the device right
otherwise when you close the screen it
would just crush the keys or depress
them into the screen that's not how this
could be done so they have to sync them
in but they're trying to give you a lot
of key travel at the same time so these
go down two and a half millimeters which
is a lot for a gaming laptop and you
just have to your fingers just don't
move in a regular way and the other
thing is that the layout of this
keyboard like the actual physical layout
like the location of the keys is fine
right this is like a kind of standard
layout but there's a pretty sizable
number pad on the right and these keys
on the number pad are full size like
they're the same size keys here so it's
this super packed keyboard with a lot of
keys on this thing in a relatively small
space and everything just gets squished
down and it just took me a long time to
get used to the spacing before I was
able to type on this comfortably and the
last thing that you have to get used to
is the actual switches themselves these
Omron switches are different from
anything else i've typed on like they
immediately feel nice like when you
first click on this like individually
you it's like yeah you know what this
feels sturdy this feels clicky it's a
nice solid keyboard but it's just a
different sensation than any other
laptop I've used before so all three of
those things made this a really steep
learning curve but once you get used to
it it's a kick-ass keyboard and I just
spent like 10 minute
talking about a freaking keyboard on a
laptop but because it's the it is really
the thing that makes this thing unique I
thought it would just go into it a
little bit more in-depth okay now if you
want to you can change the lighting and
the software you get very bright and
colorful lights and there's also fan
control as well as CPU wattage control
in that software so the performance on
this machine is okay let's kind of break
it down into gaming performance and then
we'll talk about some thermals so this
is running the eight core i7 and boosts
up to five point one gigahertz there is
a cheaper six core variant which would
probably be similar to this for most
games but the performance is really good
like we're talking crazy good frame
rates for the vast majority of triple-a
titles and most of that is from the GPU
the new r-tx
2070 super max Q which is a decent bump
up from the previous non super models
and there's also a corresponding bump up
in performance for stuff like Adobe
Premiere but it's not like a huge jump
right if you're expecting this
generation of r-tx super GPUs to be like
massive it isn't I don't think that
anyone should have expected that but
it's like a it's a bit of a spec bump
now the pricing for this stuff hasn't
gone up a lot like if you look across
the brands it seems like Nvidia is only
putting these r-tx
super GPUs into the most expensive and
premium gaming laptops like the mid tier
and cheaper gaming laptops got regular
r-tx or gtx cards only the like the best
stuff gets the supermodel so the
existence of these super cards doesn't
seem to change the pricing for most
gaming laptops alright the thermals on
this device are also quite good it is an
aorist device they usually have good
thermals to go along with their brand
but their fans have to get quite loud to
achieve those numbers you do get very
granular control of those fans in that
software but it's just something you
need to keep in mind like your if you
want a well cooled system in a package
like this you're gonna have to pay up in
fan noise so to get inside it's
relatively easy access you have a bunch
of screws and you'll be able to access
your two RAM slots your two nvme slots
and your Wi-Fi card if you want to swap
that out this is a killer card which I
personally don't love you also can see
the four heat pipes they exhaust at the
back and the side and this is the type
of thermal system I like seeing because
there's
just there's a lot of stuff going on in
here to remove the heat off the chips
and to expel it out and in order to get
a thermal system like this so you need
something thicker right this isn't like
a super thin device and they've done it
quite well I did notice in the software
I couldn't under voltage you for people
that are into that like to try to lower
temperatures I don't mind one just
locked out because it's like an early
unit but yeah the eight core i7 from
Intel on this unit just I couldn't under
voltage so there's that okay
battery life so this is a ninety four
watt hour battery and I got a little bit
less than seven hours of battery life
with the screen at 215 it's the speakers
on the side sound not great I didn't
expect them to and they didn't sound
great so there's that I mean they just
sound like your standard gaming laptop
speakers they're relatively small and
baseless okay Anna close this up real
quick the ports there is an SD card slot
reader if you're into that there's also
three USB a's and one USB C that
supports the Thunderbolt 3 as well as an
Ethernet jack so if you're gaming and
you want to be plugged in into the line
you can okay uh overall thoughts on this
device see I didn't talk about the
screen yet the screen this is I mean
it's nothing new this is a 240 Hertz
1080p panel that's bright with good
color accuracy it's a really nice
all-round gaming screen we've seen these
types of displays from ARS before they
often have really good screens and this
one doesn't disappoint and there's also
a webcam on the bottom that has a
privacy cover if you want to protect
your privacy but the viewing angles on
this thing are not great because it's
shooting from below but the overall
device is solid in terms of performance
and stuff my only complaint about the
air is 15 I got to be honest is I don't
love the design I know they spent a lot
of time designing this thing and it
feels well built but it's just not my
favorite kind of look for a gaming
laptop but it's an aorist device that's
just been refreshed to the 20/20
hardware with a very unique keyboard
that I would say is probably the best
mechanical keyboard in a gaming laptop
right now okay hope you guys enjoyed the
video thumbs if you liked it subs if you
loved it see you guys next time
[Music]